okay the entropic brain a theory of
conscious states informed by
neuroimaging research with psychedelic
drugs
this this paper chat seriously is just
whack okay this is like
fascinating i'm going to try to
summarize it for you okay so entropy is
a dimensionless
quantity that is used for measuring
uncertainty
about the state of a system but it can
also imply
physical qualities where high energy
entropy is synonymous with high disorder
entropy is applied here in the context
of states of consciousness and their
associated neurodynamics
so what this is kind of talking about
is that when we think about our
consciousness okay this this
this paper is fascinating okay when we
think about our consciousness
or a sense of self it's a low entropy
state
i am this okay like dr k
is this you are this you are
successful you're a failure you're
awesome you suck
whatever but you are something that's
your identity so what this
this paper talks about is that like when
you use psychedelics
there you create a state of high entropy
of the self so the self becomes like
disorganized and diffuse
and so when people talk about like you
know being connected to other people and
that their sense of self kind of breaks
down and they realize they're like
connected with the universe
it's like a high entropic state of
consciousness
it's whack man like the research on this
stuff is just so fascinating so when
someone's talking about ego death
absolutely right so
in moksha or enlightenment ego death
happens
and so like you are no longer you but
you are like one with the universe
and we can say those words but it
doesn't make any sense until you
experience it in a state of
consciousness
and the neuroscience behind the stuff is
fascinating once again
don't do drugs chat i'm serious because
i don't know if you guys get this but
shattering your sense of self can
sometimes leave you traumatized
so don't do that like really like the
point of showing you guys these papers
is to
demonstrate this is not something to
play around with okay so someone's
asking what about microdosing
okay look so let's just talk about this
for a second okay
so there are a lot of fads within the
substance use community
and like as a scientist and medical
professional
the short answer is we don't know
right we don't know what micro dosing
does to you we don't know what micro
dusting doesn't
do to you we just don't know right so
like i know that a lot of people like
just think
think about this for a second right if
you guys are like pro micro dosing
is that safe how do you know
oh like people are doing it now
really does that make something safe if
people are
doing it now like i don't think so man
so i know that like a lot of people
think that stuff is okay but it just
depends on what threshold you want to
use when you like stick something in
your body
repeatedly for a long period of time
i don't know like what are the long-term
effects of microdosing no one knows
because i think micro microdosing is
relatively new
what is microdosing going to do to your
brain a year from now 10 years from now
we don't know so i would strongly
strongly encourage all when it comes to
using substances and stuff like that to
do so
under the guidance of a medical
professional and i don't say that just
because it's like
medical professional monopoly right it's
like there's a reason for that man
because the people who's for whom micro
dosing
ends up going bad are the ones that
i end up seeing in the emergency room
and i have a bias there too because
all the people for whom microdosing does
well never wind up in the emergency room
so what i see is like the worst cases so
there's like a bias both ways i'm not
disagreeing with that i'm not saying i'm
objectively correct what i'm saying is
that if you look at
science science will study this stuff
and look at like
15 000 people who microdose and then
we'll say
oh here's what appears to float to the
surface
so i would say like trust in science and
trust in medicine
right but what happens to them who knows
do they have a higher risk of anxiety do
they have a higher risk of depression
do they have a higher risk of being
promoted like we just don't know
right and this is what happens people
just discover something and it
makes them feel good right your brain
absolutely loves it
which is why everyone's doing it so it
can't be bad
right kind of like when
cocaine was in coca-cola tastes
delicious
gives you energy there are no downsides
let's do it
right gotta be careful chat there's a
reason why like medicine is a thing
and science is a thing okay be careful
so
i'd steer clear of drugs chat really